THE SON OF EX- U. S. MINISTER TO ENGLAND
Commends Pe-ru-na to All Catarrh Sufferers.
Hon. Louis E. Johnson is the son of the late Roverdy Johnson who was Uni ted States Senator from Maryland, also Attorney General under President Johnson, and United States Minister to England, and who was regarded as the greatest constitutional lawyer that ever lived.
In a recent letter from 1006 F St., N. W., Washington, D.C., Mr. Johnson says: "No one should longer suffer from catarrh when Peruna Is accessible. To my knowledge It has caused relief to so many of my friends and acquaintances, that it is humanity to commend Its use to all persons suffering with this distressing disorder of the human system."...Louis E. Johnson.
Catarrh Poisons.
Catarrh is capable of changing all the life-giving secretions of the body Into scalding fluids, which destroy and In-flame every part they come In contact with. Applications to the places affected by catarrh can do little good save to soothe or quiet disagreeable symptoms. Hence It is that gargles, sprays, atomizers and inhalants only serve as temporary relief.
There is bat one remedy that has the desired effect, and that remedy is Pe-runa. This remedy strikes at once to the roots of catarrh by restoring to the capillary vessels their healthy elasticity. Peruna is not a temporary palliative, but a radical cure.
Bend for Dr. Hartman’s latest book, sent free for a short time. Address The Peruna Drug Manufacturing Co., Co- lum bus, Ohio.
For special directions everyone should read ‘ The Ills of Life," a copy’of which surrounds each bottle. Peruna is for sale by a11 chemists and druggists at five shillings per bottle or six bottles for twenty-five shillings.
Those wishing direct correspondence with Dr. Hartman and can wait the neces-sary delay in receiving a reply should address Dr. S. B. Hartman, Columbus, Ohio,
 U.S A
The following wholesale druggist will supply the retail drug trade in Alexandria,
Egypt.
MAX FISCHER,
Cairo and Alexandria.