THE EGYPTIAN GAZETTE. FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 1905.

TO-DAY’S TELEGRAMS

UNREST IN RUSSIA

STRIKE MOVEMENT
SPREADING.

WINTER PALACE FIRED ON

LONDON, January 19.
The Standard learns from St. Petersburg that three meetings of the strikers have been held. Besides an eight hours' day, it was resolved to demand the convocation of a popular Assembly, the cessation of the war, a amnesty for political prisoners together with freedom of press, creed and meeting. ( Reuter. )

St. PETERSBURG, January 19. 
The strike movement is becoming more
serious.	(Havas.)

St PETERSBURG, January 19.
The strike has ceased to be a trade move
ment and is now assuming a distinctly political character. The demands include the recognition of the rights of the people, re
medies for poverty, and redress as regards the
oppression of labour by capital. Attached to these demands there are others for free educa-tion, popular liberties, and a representative government. Other trades are joining the
strike.
Just as the guns announced the completion
of the blessing of the Neva this morning, a
bullet was tired through the window of the Winter Palace, injuring nobody. The incident
as yet is inexplicable.
(Other) During the firing of the usual salute, a gun from the batteries near the Bt»e fired shrapnel instead of blank. Four windows of the Palace were broken. The Tsar was at some distance from the Palace. (R.)

St. PETERSBURG, January 19.
On the conclusion of the blessing of the Neva, a bullet smashed a window of the Winter Palace owing to a charge having been left in the gun which tired the salutes. (Havas.)

St. PETERSBURG, January 19. Eight thousand cotton operatives here have struck. The employes on the St. Petersburg to Warsaw railway line threaten to join. (R.)

WESTPHALIAN COAL STRIKE.

Cologne, January 19.
The strikers in Westphalia number 185,000. There has been some rioting.	( Reuter.

THE ROYAL CRUISE.

DUKE AND DUCHESS OF CONNAUGHT AT ALGIERS.

Algiers, January 19.
The Duke and Duchess of Connaught have arrived. Great fêtes are being given in their honor.	( Havas.

SCOTCH EXPRESS IN COLLISION.

SIX PERSONS KILLED.

LONDON, January19.
The express from Scotland collided in a dense fog with the Leeds to Sheffield mail train near Darfield.
The express from, St. Paneras run into the wreckage, which ignited. Six persons were killed and 20 seriously injured. (Reuter.)

NORTH SEA ENQUIRY.

PUBLIC SITTING.

Paris, January 19.
The North Sea Enquiry Commission has heard the deposition of the parties. (Havas.

Paris, January 19.
At the public sitting of the Commission of Enquiry, the British and Russian cases were read.	( Reuter.)

ANOTHER BRITISH STEAMER CAPTURED.

Tokio, January 19.
The Japanese have captured the British S.S. “Oakley" with coal for Vladivostok. (R.)

MANCHURIA.

GEN. MISTCHENKO'S OPERATIONS.

St. PETERSBURG, January 19. 
It is officiously announced here that General Mistchenko's operations to the west of the Liao Ho specifically included the area of hosti-lities at the beginning of the war. (Reuter.)

LOCAL AND GENERAL.

The MaHmal leaves for Suez with its escort
to-day.

The Brindisi Mail will close at the G.P.O., Alexandria, at 8.30 a.m. on Monday.

All Saints,’ Cairo.—The Bishop of Dela-ware, the Right Rev. Dr. Coleman,.will preach on Sunday morning next at All Saints’ Church, Cairo. The service begins at 10.30 a.m.

Post OFFICE Notice. — An office for all the branches of the postal service, with the excep-tion of specie packets, will be opened at Kom Ombo, in Upper Egypt, on the 1st proximo.

King’s Accession.—Sunday next, 22nd inst., being the anniversary of the accession of his Majesty, King Edward VII., the Royal Standard or Union Jack will be flown at all stations in the command.

SUEZ Canal.— 8 vessels passed through the Canal on the 17th inst. of which 4 were British, 3 German, 1 Dutch. The day's receipts were frs. 161,225.85, bringing up the total from January 1st to frs. 6,160,649.00.

Nubia (Sudan) Development Co.— An ap-plication has been made to the committee of the London Stock Exchange to appoint a special settling day in Nubia (Sudan) Deve-lopment Company, 50,000 Vendors' Shares of £l each, fully-paid, Nos. 1 to 50,000.

Church oF Scotland.—The services in St. Andrew’s Church, Alexandria, will be conducted on Sunday next by the Rev. A. C. W. Saunders, B. D., and those in Cairo by the Rev. Hugh P. Reid. The hours of service in both churches will be 10.30 a.m. and 6 p.m.

The SakkaraH Incident.—We hear with reference to the recent occurrence at Sakkara that three separate enquiries are on foot. The Parquet and the French Consulate are investigating the affair and the Antiquities Department have also enquired into the circumstances of the alleged assault.

Syndicat des Agriculteurs.—Tho January Bulletin of the Syndicat des Agriculteurs d’Egypte contains an interesting article on “Coton en Egypte' by M. Mosseri, an appreciation of the Khédivial Agricultural society by Poifay Bey, a contribution on "Rural Legislation" by M. A. Paget, etc.

Discoveries at Karnak.—The recent extraordinary discoveries beneath the Temple of Karnak of the statues of Egyptian kings is the most important Egyptological discovery during the last fifty years. The site of this and and many of the treasure-trove are the subject of an excellent series of illustrations in the latest issue of the “Illustrated London News" to hand.

Alexandria Swimming Club. — The committee of the club have managed to get together an excellent programme for their smoking concert tomorrow evening. Among the contributors we notice the names of Messrs. W. P. Chataway, Percy Smith, W. F. Sarjeant, J.A.F. Purvis, J. Pearce-Hill, R. M. Nixon, H. M. Dodwell, J. A. F. Purvis, P. J. Byrne, and W. E. Birch.

New History oF Egypt.—Tho Committee of the Institute of Archaeology at Liverpool have been enabled by the munificence of Sir John Brunner to take in hand the publication of a ‘History of Egypt,' including all the results of modern research, and extending from the earliest times to the conquest by Alexander the Great. It is estimated that the work will take two years to complete.

PLEASURE Cruises to Egypt.—The Orient Pacific Company’s splendidly equipped steamer “Orient" is coming on two pleasure cruises to the Mediterranean. One begins on February 11 and ends on March 16, and embraces Sicily, Syria, Palestine, Egypt, and Malta. The second trip begins on March 18 and ends on April 15, when Greece, Turkey, Asia Minor, Egypt, Malta, Sicily, and the Ionian Islands will be visited.

DEATH IN a Caracol.—A curious and pain-ful incident occurred on Monday last at the Esbekieh càracol. It appears that the “maître d'armes" of the "40 Club," after receiving some chairs which he had ordered, gave “backshish" to the Arab who brought them, and was proceeding with a fencing lesson when a message came by a shawish summoning him to the caracol. It seems that the Arab and an Italian who had helped him quarelled so violently over the division of the backshish that the police took both up and conveyed them to the caracol. They had just been brought before the mamour when the Italian threw up his arms and dropped dead. Heart disease is believed to have been the cause of his death.

EGYPTIAN INVESTMENT AND
AGENCY, LTD.

An abridged prospectus of the Egyptian Investment and Agency, Limited, will be found on page 6 of to-day's issue.
The subscription will open on Monday, 23rd inst., and close the same day at 5 p.m. in Egypt.
The company was registered on January 9, by Worthington, Evans, Dauley, and Co., 27, Nicholas Lane, E.C., with a capital of £200,000, in £1 shares. Its objects are to carry on in Egypt and the Sudan any investment, financial and agency business ; to subscribe for, purchase or obtain options over stocks, shares, investments and securities of any description ; to acquire and turn to account any properties and rights ; to promote companies ; to act as trustees, receivers and liquidators, etc. The signatories are :—	Shares.
Sir F. W. R. Fryer, 23, Elvaston Place,
S.W., late Lieut.-Gov. Burma......	1,000
A. P. Mack, 68, Palmerston House,
E.C., managing director of the Nile
Valley Company, Limited ........... 1,000
R. C. Abdy, Alexandria, Egypt, merchant, by his attorney G. H. C. Lea 1,000 
R. Percy Sellon, Mansion House Build-
ings, E.C., electrical engineer.....	1,000
C. H. Villiers, 1, Great Cumberland
Place, W., Major, Reservo of Officers 1,000 
L. Worthington Evans, 27, Nicholas 
Lone, E.C., solicitor................. 1,000
E. Cable, 5 and 6, Billiter Avenue, E.C., 
merchant, by his attorney C. S. Cox 1,000
F. Owen, 6-6, Billiter Avenue, E.C.,
gentleman.......................... 1,000
C. I. Gardiner, Blenheim Mansions,
S.W., gentleman ...	  1
A. R. Roberts, 27, Nicholas Lane, E.C.,
solicitor ...	  1
Minimum cash subscription, £10,000. The directors may, by board resolution, increase the capital to a total amount not exceeding £1,000,000. The number of directors is not to be less than two nor more than nine. The first are : Sir F. Fryer, K.C.S.I., E. Cable, A. P. Mack, F. Owen, R. Percy-Sellon, Major C. H. Villiers, and R. C. Abdy. Qualification, 500 shares. Remuneration (except managing director) £200 each per annum, and £50 extra for the chairman, with 10 per cent, of the profits remaining after payment of 7 per cent, on the shares, divisible.

THE KHEDIVE.

The Khedive proceeded to Abdeen Palace this morning to inspect the final preparations for this evening's ball.
Yesterday afternoon the Khedive and Prince Gustavus Adolphus exchanged visits.
Count de Wedet, acting German Diplomatic Agent, was received in audience by the Khedive yesterday afternoon and presented to his Highness Lieutenant Frevichs and Count Luettichan, the newly-appointed attaché to the Agency, and Herr Rickarz, German Consul at Bagdad.
His Highness has conferred the rank of Mirmiran on Mahmoud Hosni Pasha, who is the Emir El Hag this year.
His Highness was graciously pleased to receive yesterday M. Paul Plan, the leading actor of the Zizmia French comedy company, who presented his Highness with a copy of his book "Les Roses de la Vie." The Khedive was also pleased to accept the dedication of an unpublished poem, "L’Oiseau et la Poète."

BRITISH AGENCY RECEPTION.

A correspondent writes : — A numerous and brilliant assembly responded to the invitation of the Countess of Cromer on the occasion of her reception at the British Agency on Wednesday evening. The elite of Cairo society, including the members of the Diplomatic Corps, the officers of the Army of Occupation and of the Egyptian Army, etc., etc, were represented, and among the number of distinguished visitors old Cairenes were delighted to welcome Sir Colin and Lady Scott-Moncrieff once more into their midst. Dancing constitutes but an adjunct in the general success of these agreeable functions, which serve above all to bring the leading members of the various communities together under the pleasantest auspices. Nevertheless the scene in the ball-room, where Lord and Lady Cromer received their guests usual, was of the most animated description: Excellent music animated the dancers until a late hour ; while entertainment of a more substantial sort was provided by a perfectly appointed buffet in the dining-room.

A SECOND SUEZ CANAL

In last week's “Fairplay" there is an interesting article putting forward a strong plea for a second Suez Canal. We have before stated that we think that the whole idea is somewhat chimerical, and that the dangers of the present state of affairs are partly exaggerated, partly imaginary. If the shipping interests have grievances against the Canal authorities, which we have no wish to dispute, their proper course is to bring pressure on the Government to get them remedied. Even if a second canal were practicable without raising most serious international complications, the spending of many millions on an unnecessary project in order to provide against a remote and intangible contingency would not be good for the country, however it might benefit the shipping industry temporarily. And no one will seriously contend that a second canal is necessary, or would pay as a commercial venture.
The article from “Fairplay" will be reproduced in tomorrow's issue.

A CAIRO SENSATION.

YOUNG TURK’S ARREST.

The recent arrest of Ahmed Bey Saib in Cairo has occasioned a great deal of talk especially owing to the publicity of his arrest, it having taken place in the Splendid Bar. He is accused of writing against the Sultan and the Ottoman Government, and is a native of Daghestan and a Moslem. He served in the Russian army, and subsequently deserted to the Turkish, where he obtained the rank of captain. He afterwards was attached to the household of the Ottoman High Commissioner Egypt, where he became the object of suspicion as it was believed that he belonged to the Young Turkish party. He was accordingly summoned to Stamboul, but preferred to resign his appointment with Ghazi Muhktar Pasha and settle in Egypt, where he married a wealthy lady.
Commenting on his arrest, a Cairo centemporary makes the following remarks, which are of interest in regard to the not unimportant question of the rights of the rights individual iu this country :—
Mais encore s’agit-il de savoir si une plainte,une dénonciation comportait, dans l’espèce une arrestation préventive subite, opérée comme s’il s’agissait d'un criminel, d'un homme dangereux pour la sûreté de l’Etat ou pour la sécurité publique.

ANNIVERSARY OF KING EDWARD‘S ACCESSION.

Sunday next, January 22, is the 4th anni-versary of King Edward the VIIth’s accession to the Throne.
At St. Mark’s, Alexandria,and at All Saints' Ramleh, both at the morning and evening services, the proper psalms lessons, and pray- ers appointed in the revised Accession Ser-vice, which is contained in recent editions of the Book of Common Prayer, will be used, and the National Anthem will be sung.

QUARANTINE IN TURKEY.

A telegram from Constantinople, despatched on Tuesday and received only yesterday, states that the quarantine restrictions imposed on arrivals from Port Said have been removed.

PROVINCIAL COUNCILS.

The decrees convoking the provincial coun-cils for the appointment of new members of the Legislative Council, and the replacement of those whose term of service as councillors has expired, will shortly be issued by the Ministry of the Interior.

MOTOR-BUS SERVICE.

It is expected that the Technical Department of the Alexandria Municipality will shortly furnish a report on the subject of motor service of omnibuses for Alexandria and its suburbs. The Municipal Commission will then give the necessary sanction fur carrying the scheme into execution.
It is not believed that the board of directors of the Alexandria and Ramleh Railway Company will be able to exert sufficient influence on the members of the Municipal Commission to induce them to quash the project. It is evident that after years of experiment a satisfactory, if not perfect, motor-bus has been evolved. The problem has been difficult, and even in London it is only during the past twelve months that success has been achieved, but there is no reason why motor-buses should not be as great a success in Alexandria and Cairo as they are in London, where both the Road Car Company and the London Gene- ral Omnibus Company have been experi-menting for a year or two. Both companies have now placed contracts for motor-buses, but the Road Car Company is operating on the larger scale. It has ordered a first instalment of fifty motors, the majority petrol and the remainder steam. The bodies are being built at its own works, where they will be fitted to the chassis. The petrol motors will be 24-h.p., with four cylinders, of the German Durkopp and Belgian Germain pattern. They will be fitted to double-deck bodies, carrying thirty-two passengers. The steam-cars will be made by Messrs. Clarkson, of Chelmsford, and will be of the pattern which the Road Car Company is already running, carrying fourteen inside passengers only.

STEAM DIGGER IN EGYPT.

Among the arrivals by the Messageries boat this week we notice Mr. Pryor, of the Cooper Steam Digger Company, who was in the country during last summer with the company’s No. 8 steam digger. The success of the trial held on the Behera Company's estate in August has led to the design of a smaller and lighter machine, named by the makers "No. 5." It speaks well for the future of the digger that eleven orders have already been received from large land companies and others before the first machine which is now due has ever been seen at work in Egypt.

STEAMER MOVEMENTS.

The S.S. “Fabian," of the Papayanni Line, left Malta last night and is due here on Mon- day morning with coal and a general cargo from Glasgow.

GRAND HOTEL BONNARD,
ALEXANDRIA.	,
8s. PER DAY, WINE INCLUDED.
---HAT.I06

PERSONAL AND SOCIAL,

General Stoessel and the other officers of the Port Arthur garrison, who are returning to Russia, are expected to reach Port Said on thé "Australien” on or about the 16th February.

Fakhry Pasha has left Cairo for a trip to Khartoum.

The number of distinguished guests at the Savoy is increasing rapidly. The latest arrivals include the Duke of Montremart, Lord George Cholmondeley, Mr. and Mlle. Mirabaud, the Earl of Londesborough, the Earl and Countess of Craven, Mr. and Mrs. James Speyer, Mr, and Mrs. A. M. Huntington, Comte Hervé d’Hunolstein, Prince de Tonnay Charente, Marquis d’Audriffet Pasquier, etc.

Many distinguished parties, who have all their suites engaged at the Savoy, are expected in the course of next week.

The Savoy Restaurant is getting more and more in favor, and although enlarged this season it is full every evening. Mr. R. J. L. Ogilby entertained a party to dinner there last evening, and Mrs. MacCalmont had party of 4. We also noticed the Duke Montremart, Mr. Cecil Higgins, Lord Londes-borough, Lord George Cholmondeley, Mr. James Speyer and a big party, Mr. and Mrs. Heidelbach, and Mr. R. Suares.

Next Saturday’s small dance at the Savoy promises to be exceptionally brilliant. Many tables have already been engaged for dinner and supper for that evening.

The engagement is announced of Captain Charles W. Maclean, the Lancashire Fusiliers, attached to the Egyptian Army, son of the late Colonel Allan MacLean, R.A., and grandson of the late General MacLean, of Rowlands, Wim-borne, and Sazonby Hall, Cumberland, to Gladys, only child of Mr. and Mrs. George Royle of Cairo. 

The Finance Ministry has decided to grant a monthly pension of L.E. 83 to Hassan Pasha Assem, former director of the Khedivial Ca- binet, who has retired.

Judge Sandars gave a delightful “At Home" yesterday afternoon at the Khedivial Hotel, Alexandria. Over 200 guests attended, in- cluding the leading  members of the various European colonies in Alexandria and a re- presentative gathering of judges of the Mixed Courts, as well as a large number of members of the British colony. Judge Sandars had secured the assistance of the great Rus- sian violinist, Mr. A. Serato, as well as that of the charming local vocalist, Mlle. M. Hoesli, and a great musical treat was consequently enjoyed by the judge's guests. The pro-gramme included the following items.
Bimonetti:	"Madrigal."
Vienatempo:	"Polonaise." ... ... ...	Mr. A.	Serato.
Handel,	"Rinaldo,"
Rubenstein	" Ka blinkt der Thau, ...	Mlle. M. Hozezz.
Bach,	“Aria,"
Serato	"Danses Espagnoles"	—	Mr. A.	Serato.
C. Franck  " La Procession,"
***Swali	"Je t'aime,"  ... ... ... Mlle. M. Honu.
***j,l»« 	"AbanUtoS"
Serato 	"Zingaresca" ... ...	...	Mr. A.	Serato 	
Mr. Serato was continually encored and his renderings of the Danses Espagnoles and Zingaresca were especially admired. Miss Hoesli's talents as a singer are too well known to need any commendation from us.

The Shah of Persia has conferred the Grand Cross of tho Order of the Lion and the Sun on Ahmed Bey Yehia the well-known native member of the Alexandria Municipality, and member for Alexandria of the Legislative Coun-ciL The same potentate has also bestowed the grade ot grand officer of the same order on his son, Emio Bey Yehia.

M. Bigrard has been appointed sub-direotor the Cairo Gas Company.

Leave of-absence, on urgent private affairs has been granted to Captain H. C. French, R.A.M.C., from 28th inst. to February 17.

Mr. Scott-Leslie, the society entertainer, intends remaining on in Alexandria for some little time, having accepted some private engagements. His entertainment is essentially of the drawing-room order.

NOTES FROM MENA.

 The dance which was held at Mena House on Wednesday last was a great success. The large new hall, with its excellent floor, and Bracale’s fine orchestra, the fine drawing room Arrangements, and the splendid buffet provided render the Mena dances more attractive than ever, and in spite of the great distance from town the number of visitors who drive out for these increase steadily. Most of the officers were there on Wednesday, and dancing kept up with great animation until midnight, when the last tram left for Cairo.
We may remind our readers that there will be a late tramway service to the Pyramids on the 19th, 20th, and 21st inst., when there will be a full moon.
Prince Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden and Norway visited the Pyramids on Wednesday and took luncheon at Mena House.
The Hon. Mr. Fitzgerald and some friends have arrived at Mena House.

CARLTON HOTEL

Bulkeley, Ramleh

Ten minutes from Alexandria. First-Class in every respect.
Very moderate charges.


Egyptian Share Market

(From our Financial Correspondence)

London, January 13.
The issue of the Russian loan in Berlin has, according to telegrams received from that centre, “been a great success," and subscribed for many times over—no sooner were the lists open than they were at once closed. This part of the programme has been carried out to the letter as every one here knew it would be. The opening and closing operation was a little too precipitate to be of any value, and gives the “show" away. We have much plea sure in assuring our readers that the ques-tion of peace is now again to the fore, and the services of the leading diplomats of the world are again in requisition, Some of the best-informed say that it is much nearer than generally supposed. Our good King's efforts at the time of the sailing of the Baltic fleet were very near being successful, and should he see fit to “offer advice" with his consummate tact and ability, matters will soon take a rapid turn for the better. Nevertheless Russia must have a very heavy bill to pay, which will tax her resources to the utmost The figures disclosed in the Imperial Budget for 1905, issued to-day in St. Petersburg, are of little use to the financier desiring to know the true position of Russian finances because none of the expenditures in connection with the war have been included. Our stock and share markets present very little of interest this week, prices have been of the see-saw order, with small fluctuations. Egyptian stocks have held their prices well during the week, in fact, the tone was strong in the earlier part, Bank shares being largely bought, Nationals touching 24 1/2 buyers. Delta Lands also were good and as high as 3 1/2, but this price brought stock in and they have steadied down to 3 again. Delta light Railways are a good market at 12 1/2 and there are buyers of the Debentures at over 101. Salt and Soda are an motive market- again at 2. In the mining section Nile Valleys, after beginning the week dull at 2 1/2 rose to 2 1/2, but are inclined to ease off again. United Africans are steady at 1 5/8 Egyptian Mines look a weak market at 16s. and there are said to be several sellers about. South Africans have been idle and dull. A rumour which is current at the that a large financial house here, which has only recently got out of a tight cor-ner, is again in difficulties, may in part explain the weakness of Kaffirs, added to the fact that the speculative division inside have been dis-appointed since the turn of the year. The Foreign Market is not a bad one. Japanese stocks are well supported and strong ; Russians on the other hand, after being temporarily propped up early in the week from Berlin, for the benefit of yesterday's new issue, have given way again to 90 1/4. Investment stocks are fairly steady. The American market has a firm ten-dency, with little doing at the moment. Consols close at 88 5/8.

BULLETIN DE LA BOURSE

(Aujourdküi à midi et demie) 

Aujourd'hui, en raison d'importantes reali sations, la cote à fléchi sur toute la ligne, la Banque Nationaletombe a 26 1/16,la Datra a 22 1/4, la Salt & Soda a 42/6, les Nungovich Hotels a 9 7/8, l'Anglo-Amerioan Nile a 5 1/16, la DelU Light a 14 7/16 etc.
Les Cotton Mills et les Eaux du Caire faut souls exception à la faiblesse générale. Les premiers remontent à 7/6 acheteurs et les secondes de 1,080 à  1,110.

PASSENGERS' LISTS.

Departues

Le paquebot “Tebe” de la Cie Florio Rubat-tino parti hier avait à bord:
M. et Mme Juan Campano, Von Poach, Glecker, Frank Mayer, M. et'Mme A. Volkers, W. Borg, E. Mirabeau, E. Figari, Schnell, M. Caprara, G. Galli, Richardson, Bucher Wiat, M. et Mme C. Bassi, H. Bayastro, R. Supio, S. Ames, Beham, Kumming, Lt. et Mme R. di Maio et 22 paasagers de 3me classe.

NOTICE.

I, the undersigned, having the pro-buratiun of Mr. John Thomas Burton hereby give notice that I	refuse	to
acknowledge any debt contracted	in the name of above - mentioned without specific order in writing bearing my signature.
JOHN H. BURTON.
Alexandria,	18 January.	25964-3-3

SAVOY HOTEL LUXOR.

Best and most oomfortable, unique for its position on Nile bonk. Under German Manage meat Moderate charges. Patronised by officers of Army of Occupation. Concerts twice daily.

CAIRO GRAND HAMMAM

EDEN PALACE HOTEL

